	The Many-Headed Hydra: Sailors, Slaves, Commoners, and the Hidden history of the Revolutionary Atlantic by Peter Linebaugh and Marcus Rediker is a labor history that examines the revolutionary Atlantic world during the 17th, 18th, and early 19th centuries. Linebaugh and Rediker argue that the best way to examine the bottom up revolution against global capitalism is to use that analogy of Hercules and the many headed hydra. Hercules represents the mighty power of the elites that attempt to maintain control over society. The hydra, on the other hand, represents the hewers of wood and the drawers of water, or the working class. Linbaugh and Rediker contend that like the hydra, the proletariat have a common enemy but do not work in unison. Thus a hydra type creature is born that desperately fights against its oppressor and each time the bourgeoisie destroys a section of the working class, two more rise up in its place. In order to make this point, the authors write the book in a manner that each chapter stands on its own. Each chapter describes one of the heads of the hydra, and thus the book is a many headed hydra with each chapter representing a part of the diverse working class that comprised the revolutionary Atlantic. 
	One of the striking points Rediker and Linebaugh makes in discerning what the age of revolutions was is the time frame. Klooster looks at the end of the Seven Years’ War as the starting point for this age of Revolutions. Linebaugh and Rediker, however, contend that it started much earlier. It was the rise of a global capitalist market that started the age in the early 17th century. Linebaugh and Rediker look at the wreck of the Sea-Venture and the clash that took place between the Virginia company men and the colonist and sailors who wanted to stay in Bermuda. In order to gain control the elites resorted to violence a terror in order to force the lower classes to submit thus ending one of the first revolutions against tyrannical authority in the transatlantic world. 
	Another point that Linbaugh and Rediker make is that the hydra was only able to thrive in a transatlantic world. On the final page a map is presented to demonstrate the unique setting that allowed dissent to appear all over the British Empire. There did, however, have to be messengers of revolution. These messengers were the proletariat of the wooden world. In nearly every chapter sailors come up, either as the leaders of revolts, or agitators that rally support from other hewers of wood and drawers of water. This makes it clear that another key component for the age of revolutions was to have a vast transatlantic world that was traversed by seamen who would fight against oppression on land or at sea. 
	Klooster makes the point in Revolutions in the Atlantic World that none of the revolutions resulted in true democracies. The end result was either a totalitarian regime, or a society with elites in control. Linebaugh and Rediker reinforce Klooster’s interpretation of the outcome of revolutions by first pointing to the English Civil War and the Putney debates that resulted Cromwell becoming a totalitarian leader of England. Linebaugh and Rediker also echo Klooster when discussing the American Revolution. Linebaugh and Rediker contend that the elites strategically used race and nationality to take the revolution from the motley crew and achieve their own ends. 
	In conclusion Rediker and Linebaugh expanded my understanding of the age of revolutions by expanding the timeline greatly which expands the time period of the Age of Revolutions. Linebaugh and Rediker also explain that a vital component for the spreading of the revolutions was the unique setting of Atlantic world and the sailors that traversed it. Finally Linebaugh and Rediker solidified my understanding tha the Revolutions did not accomplish their primary goal and in the off chance they were successful the revolutions did not create an egalitarian society. 
